So I mentioned in the last video that we're going to build a so-called restful API with nodejs.
Now we haven't even had a look at nodejs yet
but this is important to understand because this is what we'll build in this course.
What is a restful API?
Rest stands for representational state transfer,
and what is it?
Well a restful API is in the end a server side solution, a server side service,
so a server side app you could say,
so we have the server and we have the client, the browser.
Now in our case, angular, the angular app is going to run on the client and the angular app is going to
send these background requests I was talking about, the server has to send back responses which you
can then use in the angular app.
Now often these responses are html pages but that's only the case for traditional web apps where
we don't have the support for background requests
but where we send back a new html page for every request
but this is not what we use in an angular app. Instead in an angular app, a single page app and not such
a traditional web app,
there we have our client but we could also and that's important,
we could also have other clients, a mobile app for example
and this mobile app could store and fetch data but doesn't need or use render html.
We could also have some other client, some service script we run on our machine which also wants to access
certain features which we expose on this API
but in our case in this course, we simply have a client which is a browser with a single page application
and there we want to store the fetched data but never render a second html page because everything is
re-rendered with javascript in that one page we have in that single page.
So we get the right case here,
I'm just showing these other cases because the important thing to understand is that a restful API is
a stateless backend, it doesn't care about which client connected to it, all a restful API does is it
exposes a couple of different
urls, so-called paths to which you can send requests and depending to which path you send to a
request, something different will happen.
So to show this, we've got a client, our angular app, we got a restful server and then we get different
paths, /users, /posts, /products,
so you could send a request to yourdomain/users,
you could send a request to yourdomain.com/posts,
you could send a request to yourdomain.com/products and depending on to which path you send the
request, something different will happen and
you will get a different response
but this of course makes your API fully transparent then predictable and you can do different things
with it.
We create the API on our own,
so we got full control what we want to support, what we want to offer.
Now besides these different paths, there's one other important thing we need for identifying or for handling
a requests correctly and that is the http verb used for that request, get, post, delete, patch, put, these
would be verbs you can use
and for the different paths, you might be supporting different verbs.
You don't have to support all verbs for every path,
for some paths you only want to allow get requests, for some paths
you maybe only want to allow post requests.
And with this you can send such an ajax request through angular's http client, for example send
a post request to yourdomain.com/users
and this would probably be adding a new user to your backend database
but what exactly happens is of course controlled with your server side code that runs for this path
and in this module,
you will learn how to create these paths and how to send requests to them,
in the end you will get back a response which you can then use in your client side application. That
is how a restful API works,
now we also need to care about the data we send and there it's important to understand that we communicate
with json data, not with html data, not with xml data,
json is a data format which looks very much like javascript objects which is very small but yet understandable
and machine readable and which allows us to exchange data.
We could use different data like xml, url encoded data where we have everything added as query
parameters in the url, form data,
these would all be alternatives but in most of the cases and also in this course, we will use json data.
So enough of the theory then, let's start building that node backend so that we can also see how that
all works.